Add Trace analytics page to doc website repo (#1873)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _data-prepper/trace-analytics.md

---
layout: default
title: Trace analytics
nav_order: 21
---

# Trace analytics

## Introduction

> Data Prepper ingests [Trace Analytics](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/observability-plugin/trace/index/) into OpenSearch and Amazon OpenSearch Service. Data Prepper is a last mile server-side component which collects telemetry data from [AWS Distro OpenTelemetry collector](https://aws-otel.github.io/docs/getting-started/collector) or [OpenTelemetry collector](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector) and transforms it for OpenSearch. The transformed trace data is the visualized using the [Trace Analytics OpenSearch Dashboards plugin](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/observability-plugin/trace/ta-dashboards/), which provides at-a-glance visibility into your application performance, along with the ability to drill down on individual traces.

Reviewer: > Trace Analytics OpenSearch Dashboards plugin

This is now the "OpenSearch Dashboards Observability plugin".

Here is how all the components work in trace analytics:

![Trace analytics component]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/data-prepper/trace-analytics/trace-analytics-components.png)

In your service environment, you need to run OpenTelemetry collector. You can run it as a sidecar or daemonset for EKS, a sidecar for ECS, or an agent on EC2. You should configure the collector to export trace data to Data Prepper. Then, you need to deploy Data Prepper as an intermediate component and configure it to send the enriched trace data to your OpenSearch cluster or Amazon OpenSearch Service domain. Finally, use OpenSearch Dashboards to visualize and detect problems in your distributed applications.

## Trace analytics pipeline

> To achieve trace analytics in Data Prepper, we have three pipelines: `otel-trace-pipeline`, `raw-trace-pipeline` and `service-map-pipeline`.

Reviewer: Rename `otel-trace-pipeline` to `entry-pipeline`

![Trace analytics pipeline]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/data-prepper/trace-analytics/trace-analytics-feature.jpeg)

### OpenTelemetry trace source

The [OpenTelemetry source](../data-prepper-plugins/otel-trace-source/README.md) accepts trace data from the OpenTelemetry collector. The source depends on [OpenTelemetry Protocol](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/tree/master/specification/protocol). The source officially support transport over gRPC. The source also supports industry-standard encryption (TLS/HTTPS).

### Processor

We have two processor for the Trace Analytics feature,
* *otel_trace_raw* -  This is a processor that receives collection of [Span](../../data-prepper-api/src/main/java/com/amazon/dataprepper/model/trace/Span.java) records sent from [otel-trace-source](../dataPrepper-plugins/otel-trace-source), does stateful processing on extracting and filling-in trace group related fields.

> * *otel_trace_group* -  This is a processor that fills in the missing trace group related fields in the collection of [Span](../../data-prepper-api/src/main/java/com/amazon/dataprepper/model/trace/Span.java) records by looking up the opensearch backend.

Reviewer: > looking up the opensearch backend

Please correct the case to "OpenSearch"

* *service_map_stateful* -  This processor performs the required preprocessing on the trace data and build metadata to display the service-map OpenSearch Dashboards dashboards.

### OpenSearch sink

> We have a generic sink that writes the data to OpenSearch as the destination. The [opensearch sink](../data-prepper-plugins/opensearch/README.md) has configuration options related to OpenSearch cluster like endpoint, SSL/Username, index name, index template, index state management, etc.

Reviewer: > cluster like endpoint, SSL/Username, 

We should split SSL from Username. And probably use "username/password" instead.

Thus, the above can become:

> cluster like endpoint, SSL, username/password,

For the trace analytics feature, the sink has specific configurations which enables the sink to use indices and index templates specific to this feature. Trace analytics specific OpenSearch indices are,

> * *otel-v1-apm-span* -  This index stores the output from [otel-trace-raw-processor](../data-prepper-plugins/otel-trace-raw-processor/README.md).

Reviewer: Rename "otel-trace-raw-processor" to "otel_trace_raw"

Also, please correct the link. It should point to the new configuration reference page for "otel_trace_raw". Specifically, it is the page which the following link generates: https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/blob/main/_data-prepper/configuration/processors/otel-trace-raw.md

> * *otel-v1-apm-service-map* - This index stores the output from the [service-map-processor](../data-prepper-plugins/service-map-stateful/README.md).

Reviewer: Rename "service-map-processor" to "service_map_stateful"

Also, the link should be the new configuration reference page for "service_map_stateful". This page: https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/blob/main/_data-prepper/configuration/processors/service-map-stateful.md

## Pipeline configuration

### Trace analytics pipeline example

> The following example demonstrates how to build a pipeline that supports the [Trace Analytics OpenSearch Dashboards plugin]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/observability-plugin/trace/ta-dashboards/). This pipeline takes data from the OpenTelemetry Collector and uses two other pipelines as sinks. These two separate pipelines index trace and the service map documents for the dashboard plugin.

Reviewer: > Trace Analytics OpenSearch Dashboards plugin

This is now the "OpenSearch Dashboards Observability plugin".

  source:
    pipeline:
      name: "entry-pipeline"
  buffer:
    bounded_blocking:
      buffer_size: 10240
      batch_size: 160
  processor:
    - service_map_stateful:
  sink:
    - opensearch:
        hosts: ["https://localhost:9200"]
        insecure: true
        username: admin
        password: admin
        index_type: trace-analytics-service-map
```

To maintain similar ingestion throughput and latency, scale the `buffer_size` and `batch_size` by the estimated maximum batch size in the client request payload.
{: .tip}

#### Example: otel trace
Example `otel-trace-source` with SSL and Basic Authentication enabled. Note that you will have to change your `otel-collector-config.yaml` accordingly:

```yaml
source:
  otel_trace_source:
    #record_type: event  # Add this when using Data Prepper 1.x. This option is removed in 2.0
    ssl: true
    sslKeyCertChainFile: "/full/path/to/certfile.crt"
    sslKeyFile: "/full/path/to/keyfile.key"
    authentication:
      http_basic:
        username: "my-user"
        password: "my_s3cr3t"
```

#### Example: pipeline.yaml
Example `pipeline.yaml` without SSL and Basic Authentication for the `otel-trace-source`:

```yaml

> otel-trace-pipeline:

Reviewer: We should probably rename this to `entry-pipeline` for consistency.

Author: @dlvenable To confirm, should `otel-trace-pipeline` be changed to `entry-pipeline`? Or are you referring to another item?

  # workers is the number of threads processing data in each pipeline. 
  # We recommend same value for all pipelines.
  # default value is 1, set a value based on the machine you are running Data Prepper
  workers: 8 
  # delay in milliseconds is how often the worker threads should process data.

>   # Recommend not to change this config as we want the otel-trace-pipeline to process as quick as possible

Reviewer: Rename: `entry-pipeline`

  # default value is 3_000 ms
  delay: "100" 
  source:
    otel_trace_source:
      #record_type: event  # Add this when using Data Prepper 1.x. This option is removed in 2.0
      ssl: false # Change this to enable encryption in transit
      authentication:
        unauthenticated:
  buffer:
    bounded_blocking:
       # buffer_size is the number of ExportTraceRequest from otel-collector the data prepper should hold in memeory. 
       # We recommend to keep the same buffer_size for all pipelines. 
       # Make sure you configure sufficient heap
       # default value is 512
       buffer_size: 512
       # This is the maximum number of request each worker thread will process within the delay.
       # Default is 8.
       # Make sure buffer_size >= workers * batch_size
       batch_size: 8
  sink:
    - pipeline:
        name: "raw-pipeline"
    - pipeline:
        name: "service-map-pipeline"
raw-pipeline:

>   # Configure same as the otel-trace-pipeline

Reviewer: Rename: `entry-pipeline`

  workers: 8 
  # We recommend using the default value for the raw-pipeline.
  delay: "3000" 
  source:
    pipeline:

>       name: "otel-trace-pipeline"

Reviewer: Rename: `entry-pipeline`

  buffer:
      bounded_blocking:

>          # Configure the same value as in otel-trace-pipeline

Reviewer: Rename: `entry-pipeline`

        hosts: [ "https://localhost:9200" ]
        # Change to your credentials
        username: "admin"
        password: "admin"
        # Add a certificate file if you are accessing an OpenSearch cluster with a self-signed certificate  
        #cert: /path/to/cert
        # If you are connecting to an Amazon OpenSearch Service domain without
        # Fine-Grained Access Control, enable these settings. Comment out the
        # username and password above.
        #aws_sigv4: true
        #aws_region: us-east-1
  sink:
    - opensearch:
        hosts: [ "https://localhost:9200" ]
        index_type: trace-analytics-raw
        # Change to your credentials
        username: "admin"
        password: "admin"
        # Add a certificate file if you are accessing an OpenSearch cluster with a self-signed certificate  
        #cert: /path/to/cert
        # If you are connecting to an Amazon OpenSearch Service domain without
        # Fine-Grained Access Control, enable these settings. Comment out the
        # username and password above.
        #aws_sigv4: true
        #aws_region: us-east-1
service-map-pipeline:
  workers: 8
  delay: "100"
  source:
    pipeline:

>       name: "otel-trace-pipeline"

Reviewer: Rename: `entry-pipeline`

         batch_size: 8
  sink:
    - opensearch:
        hosts: [ "https://localhost:9200" ]
        index_type: trace-analytics-service-map
        # Change to your credentials
        username: "admin"
        password: "admin"
        # Add a certificate file if you are accessing an OpenSearch cluster with a self-signed certificate  
        #cert: /path/to/cert
        # If you are connecting to an Amazon OpenSearch Service domain without
        # Fine-Grained Access Control, enable these settings. Comment out the
        # username and password above.
        #aws_sigv4: true
        #aws_region: us-east-1
```

You will need to modify the configuration above for your OpenSearch cluster. Note that it has two
`opensearch` sinks which need to be modified.

The main changes you will need to make are:
* `hosts` - Set to your hosts
* `username` - Provide the OpenSearch username
* `password` - Provide your OpenSearch password
* `aws_sigv4` - If you are Amazon OpenSearch Service with AWS signing, set this to `true`. It will sign requests with the default AWS credentials provider.
* `aws_region` - If you are Amazon OpenSearch Service with AWS signing, set this value to your region.

> The the [Data Prepper OpenSearch Sink](../data-prepper-plugins/opensearch/README.md#Configuration) documents

Reviewer: This link should direct the reader to the new page you created for the OpenSearch sink reference. This is the source for that page: https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/blob/main/_data-prepper/configuration/sinks/opensearch.md

You should make this a relative path for the generated site.

other configurations available for OpenSearch.

> ## OpenTelemetry collector

Reviewer: Capitalize the "c" in "collector" since this is a proper noun.

You will have to run OpenTelemetry collector in your service environment. You can find the installation guide of OpenTelemetry collector [here](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/getting-started/#getting-started).  Ensure that you configure the collector with an exporter configured to your Data Prepper. Below is an example `otel-collector-config.yaml` that receives data from various instrumentations and export it to Data Prepper.

### Example otel-collector-config.yaml
```
receivers:
  jaeger:
    protocols:
      grpc:
  otlp:
    protocols:
      grpc:
  zipkin:

processors:
  batch/traces:
    timeout: 1s
    send_batch_size: 50

exporters:
  otlp/data-prepper:
    endpoint: localhost:21890
    tls:
      insecure: true

service:
  pipelines:
    traces:
      receivers: [jaeger, otlp, zipkin]
      processors: [batch/traces]
      exporters: [otlp/data-prepper]
```

After you run OpenTelemetry in your service environment, you need to configure your application to use the OpenTelemetry collector. Normally, the OpenTelemetry collector runs alongside your application.

## Next steps and more information

> The [OpenSearch Trace Analytics](https://opensearch.org/docs/monitoring-plugins/trace/index/) documentation provides additional details on configuring OpenSearch for viewing trace analytics. In particular, it documents how to use OpenSearch Dashboards.

Reviewer: >  [OpenSearch Trace Analytics](https://opensearch.org/docs/monitoring-plugins/trace/index/)

This is the same OpenSearch Dashboards Observability plugin referenced above. Please correct the name and fix the link.

> The [Trace Tuning page](trace_tuning.md) has information to help you tune and scale Data Prepper for

Reviewer: This relative URL path (trace_tuning.md) will produce a broken link. I think we can have the trace tuning either on this page or as a sub-page to this page.

Author: Trace tuning content will be added to this page, and this sentence will be reworked accordingly. Thanks!

---
layout: default
title: Trace analytics
nav_order: 21
---

# Trace analytics

## Introduction

> Data Prepper ingests [Trace Analytics](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/observability-plugin/trace/index/) into OpenSearch and Amazon OpenSearch Service. Data Prepper is a last-mile server-side component which collects telemetry data from [AWS Distro OpenTelemetry collector](https://aws-otel.github.io/docs/getting-started/collector) or [OpenTelemetry collector](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector), and transforms it for OpenSearch. Then, the transformed trace data is visualized using the [OpenSearch Dashboards Observability plugin](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/observability-plugin/trace/ta-dashboards/), which provides visibility into your application performance, along with the ability to drill down on individual traces.

Author: @hdhalter Is the intent to have the text you provided replace the entire paragraph?

> Data Prepper ingests [Trace Analytics](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/observability-plugin/trace/index/) into OpenSearch and Amazon OpenSearch Service. Data Prepper is a last-mile server-side component which collects telemetry data from [AWS Distro OpenTelemetry collector](https://aws-otel.github.io/docs/getting-started/collector) or [OpenTelemetry collector](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector), and transforms it for OpenSearch. Then, the transformed trace data is visualized using the [OpenSearch Dashboards Observability plugin](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/observability-plugin/trace/ta-dashboards/), which provides visibility into your application performance, along with the ability to drill down on individual traces.

Reviewer 2: Yes, but please run it by DV.

> Data Prepper ingests [Trace Analytics](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/observability-plugin/trace/index/) into OpenSearch and Amazon OpenSearch Service. Data Prepper is a last-mile server-side component which collects telemetry data from [AWS Distro OpenTelemetry collector](https://aws-otel.github.io/docs/getting-started/collector) or [OpenTelemetry collector](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector), and transforms it for OpenSearch. Then, the transformed trace data is visualized using the [OpenSearch Dashboards Observability plugin](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/observability-plugin/trace/ta-dashboards/), which provides visibility into your application performance, along with the ability to drill down on individual traces.

Author: @dlvenable Is it acceptable to change the current paragraph to ""When using Data Prepper as a server-side component to collect trace data, you can customize a Data Prepper pipeline to ingest and transform the data for use in OpenSearch. Upon transformation, you can visualize the transformed trace data for use in [Trace analytics] inside of OpenSearch Dashboards. Trace data gives visibility into your application's performance, as well as helps you discover more details on individual traces." ?

> Data Prepper ingests [Trace Analytics](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/observability-plugin/trace/index/) into OpenSearch and Amazon OpenSearch Service. Data Prepper is a last-mile server-side component which collects telemetry data from [AWS Distro OpenTelemetry collector](https://aws-otel.github.io/docs/getting-started/collector) or [OpenTelemetry collector](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector), and transforms it for OpenSearch. Then, the transformed trace data is visualized using the [OpenSearch Dashboards Observability plugin](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/observability-plugin/trace/ta-dashboards/), which provides visibility into your application performance, along with the ability to drill down on individual traces.

Reviewer: Yes, that mostly works.

One minor comment: "Trace analytics" is the old name of the feature. It is now "Observability" or the "Observability plugin."

The following flowchart illustrates how components work in trace analytics, from running OpenTelemetry Collector to using OpenSearch Dashboards for visualization.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/data-prepper/trace-analytics/trace-analytics-components.png" alt="Trace analyticis component overview">{: .img-fluid}

In your service environment, you need to run OpenTelemetry collector. You can run it as a sidecar or daemonset for EKS, a sidecar for ECS, or an agent on EC2. You should configure the collector to export trace data to Data Prepper. Then, you need to deploy Data Prepper as an intermediate component and configure it to send the enriched trace data to your OpenSearch cluster or Amazon OpenSearch Service domain. Finally, use OpenSearch Dashboards to visualize and detect problems in your distributed applications.

## Trace analytics pipeline

> To achieve trace analytics in Data Prepper, we have three pipelines: `entry-pipeline`, `raw-trace-pipeline` and `service-map-pipeline`.

Author: @dlvenable Replacing "achieve" with "monitor" sounds like it would clarify this item. Can you confirm that this is correct?

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/data-prepper/trace-analytics/trace-analytics-feature.jpg" alt="Trace analyticis pipeline overview">{: .img-fluid}

### OpenTelemetry trace source

The [OpenTelemetry source]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper-plugins/otel-trace-source/README.md) accepts trace data from the OpenTelemetry collector. The source depends on [OpenTelemetry Protocol](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/tree/master/specification/protocol). The source officially support transport over gRPC. The source also supports industry-standard encryption (TLS/HTTPS).

### Processor

There are two processors for the Trace Analytics feature:

* *otel_trace_raw* -  This is a processor that receives collection of [Span]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper-api/src/main/java/com/amazon/dataprepper/model/trace/Span.java) records sent from [otel-trace-source]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/dataPrepper-plugins/otel-trace-source), and performs stateful processing on extracting and filling-in trace group related fields.

> * *otel_trace_group* -  This is a processor that fills in the missing trace group related fields in the collection of [Span]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper-api/src/main/java/com/amazon/dataprepper/model/trace/Span.java) records by looking up the OpenSearch backend.

Reviewer: > {{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper-api/src/main/java/com/amazon/dataprepper/model/trace/Span.java

This should be on the GitHub data-prepper repo, not a relative path.

* *service_map_stateful* -  This processor performs required pre-processing for trace data and builds metadata to display the `service-map` OpenSearch Dashboards dashboards.

### OpenSearch sink

> We have a generic sink that writes the data to OpenSearch as the destination. The [OpenSearch sink]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper-plugins/opensearch/README.md) has configuration options related to OpenSearch cluster, such as endpoint, SSL, username/password, index name, index template, and index state management.

Reviewer: > {{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper-plugins/opensearch/README.m

This should link to the new `opensearch` sink documentation. It should resolve to: `docs/2.4/data-prepper/configuration/sinks/opensearch/`

#### Heap

Configure the heap of Data Prepper by setting the `JVM_OPTS` environmental variable. We recommend that you set the heap value to a minimum value of `4` * `batch_size` * `otel_send_batch_size` * `maximum size of indvidual span`.

As mentioned in the [setup guide](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/docs/trace_analytics.md#opentelemetry-collector), set `otel_send_batch_size` to a value of `50` in your OpenTelemetry collector configuration.

#### Local disk

Data Prepper uses the local disk to store metadata required for service-map processing, so we recommend only storing the key fields `traceId`, `spanId`, `parentSpanId`, `spanKind`, `spanName` and `serviceName`. The service-map plugin ensures that it only stores two files, with each storing `window_duration` seconds of data. During testing we found that, for a throughput of `3000 spans/second`, the total disk usage was `4 MB`.

> Data Prepper also uses the local disk to write logs. In the most recent version of Data Prepper, you can redirect the logs to the path of your preference.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Data Prepper also uses the local disk to write logs. In the most recent version of Data Prepper, you can redirect the logs to the path you prefer.
```

### AWS

> The [AWS EC2 Cloudformation](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/deployment-template/ec2/data-prepper-ec2-deployment-cfn.yaml) template provides a user-friendly mechanism to configure the above scaling attributes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The [AWS EC2 Cloudformation](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/deployment-template/ec2/data-prepper-ec2-deployment-cfn.yaml) template provides a user-friendly mechanism to configure the scaling attributes described in the [Trace tuning section](#trace-tuning).
```

The [Kubernetes configuration files](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/examples/dev/k8s/README.md) and [EKS configuration files](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/deployment-template/eks/README.md) are available to configure these attributes in a cluster deployment.

### Benchmark

> We ran tests in a `r5.xlarge` EC2 instance with the following configuration:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The benchmark tests were performed in a `r5.xlarge` EC2 instance with the following configuration:
```

 
 * `buffer_size`: 4096
 * `batch_size`: 256
 * `workers`: 8
 * `Heap`: 10GB
 

> The above setup was able to handle a throughput of `2100` spans/second at `20` percent CPU utilization.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This setup was able to handle a throughput of `2100` spans/second at `20` percent CPU utilization.
```

## Pipeline configuration

> The following sections describe pipeline configuration.

Reviewer 3: We should have a more descriptive sentence or two here.

### Trace analytics pipeline example

> The following example demonstrates how to build a pipeline that supports the [OpenSearch Dashboards Observability plugin]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/observability-plugin/trace/ta-dashboards/). This pipeline takes data from the OpenTelemetry Collector and uses two other pipelines as sinks. These two, separate pipelines index trace and the service map documents for the dashboard plugin.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following example demonstrates how to build a pipeline that supports the [OpenSearch Dashboards Observability plugin]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/observability-plugin/trace/ta-dashboards/). This pipeline takes data from the OpenTelemetry Collector and uses two other pipelines as sinks. These two separate pipelines index trace and the service map documents for the dashboard plugin.
```

> Starting with Data Prepper version 2.0, Data Prepper no longer supports the `otel_trace_raw_prepper` processor due to the Data Prepper internal data model evolution. Instead, users should use the  `otel_trace_raw` processor. See the following .yaml file example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Starting with Data Prepper version 2.0, Data Prepper no longer supports the `otel_trace_raw_prepper` processor due to the Data Prepper internal data model evolution. Instead, use the  `otel_trace_raw` processor. See the following .yaml file example:
```

    otel_trace_source:
      ssl: false
  buffer:
    bounded_blocking:
      buffer_size: 10240
      batch_size: 160
  sink:
    - pipeline:
        name: "raw-trace-pipeline"
    - pipeline:
        name: "service-map-pipeline"
raw-pipeline:
  source:
    pipeline:
      name: "entry-pipeline"
  buffer:
    bounded_blocking:
      buffer_size: 10240
      batch_size: 160
  processor:
    - otel_trace_raw:
  sink:
    - opensearch:
        hosts: ["https://localhost:9200"]
        insecure: true
        username: admin
        password: admin
        index_type: trace-analytics-raw
service-map-pipeline:
  delay: "100"
  source:
    pipeline:
      name: "entry-pipeline"
  buffer:
    bounded_blocking:
      buffer_size: 10240
      batch_size: 160
  processor:
    - service_map_stateful:
  sink:
    - opensearch:
        hosts: ["https://localhost:9200"]
        insecure: true
        username: admin
        password: admin
        index_type: trace-analytics-service-map
```

To maintain similar ingestion throughput and latency, scale the `buffer_size` and `batch_size` by the estimated maximum batch size in the client request payload. {: .tip}

#### Example: otel trace

> Note that you will have to change your `otel-collector-config.yaml` file accordingly. See the following `otel-trace-source` .yaml file example with SSL and basic authentication enabled. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following is an example `otel-trace-source` .yaml file with SSL and basic authentication enabled. Note that you will have to change your `otel-collector-config.yaml` file to use your own credentials. 
```

        window_duration: 180 
  buffer:
      bounded_blocking:
         # buffer_size is the number of ExportTraceRequest from otel-collector the data prepper should hold in memeory. 
         # We recommend to keep the same buffer_size for all pipelines. 
         # Make sure you configure sufficient heap
         # default value is 512
         buffer_size: 512
         # This is the maximum number of request each worker thread will process within the delay.
         # Default is 8.
         # Make sure buffer_size >= workers * batch_size
         batch_size: 8
  sink:
    - opensearch:
        hosts: [ "https://localhost:9200" ]
        index_type: trace-analytics-service-map
        # Change to your credentials
        username: "admin"
        password: "admin"
        # Add a certificate file if you are accessing an OpenSearch cluster with a self-signed certificate  
        #cert: /path/to/cert
        # If you are connecting to an Amazon OpenSearch Service domain without
        # Fine-Grained Access Control, enable these settings. Comment out the
        # username and password above.
        #aws_sigv4: true
        #aws_region: us-east-1
```

> You will need to modify the configuration above for your OpenSearch cluster. Note that it has two `opensearch` sinks which need to be modified.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You need to modify the preceding configuration for your OpenSearch cluster. Note that it has two `opensearch` sinks which need to be modified.
{: .note}
```

You must make the following changes:
* `hosts` - Set to your hosts
* `username` - Provide the OpenSearch username.
* `password` - Provide your OpenSearch password.

> * `aws_sigv4` - If you are Amazon OpenSearch Service with AWS signing, set this value to `true`. It will sign requests with the default AWS credentials provider.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `aws_sigv4` - If you are using Amazon OpenSearch Service with AWS signing, set this value to `true`. It will sign requests with the default AWS credentials provider.
```

To monitor trace analytics, you need to set up the following components in your service environment:
- Add **instrumentation** to your application so it can generate telemetry data and send it to an OpenTelemetry collector.
- Run an **OpenTelemetry collector** as a sidecar or daemonset for EKS, a sidecar for ECS, or an agent on EC2. You should configure the collector to export trace data to Data Prepper. 
- Deploy **Data Prepper** as the ingestion collector for OpenSearch. Configure it to send the enriched trace data to your OpenSearch cluster or to the Amazon OpenSearch Service domain.
- Use **OpenSearch Dashboards** to visualize and detect problems in your distributed applications.

## Trace analytics pipeline

To achieve trace analytics in Data Prepper, we have three pipelines: `entry-pipeline`, `raw-trace-pipeline` and `service-map-pipeline`.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/data-prepper/trace-analytics/trace-analytics-feature.jpg" alt="Trace analytics pipeline overview">{: .img-fluid}

### OpenTelemetry trace source

> The [OpenTelemetry source]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper-plugins/otel-trace-source/README.md) accepts trace data from the OpenTelemetry collector. The source follows the [OpenTelemetry Protocol](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/tree/master/specification/protocol). The source officially supports transport over gRPC and the use of industry-standard encryption (TLS/HTTPS).

Author: @dlvenable This is the format the URLs should follow to correctly update with newer versions.

The following describes how components work in trace analytics.

![Trace analytics component]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/data-prepper/trace-analytics/trace-analytics-components.png)

In your service environment, you need to run OpenTelemetry collector. You can run it as a sidecar or daemonset for EKS, a sidecar for ECS, or an agent on EC2. You should configure the collector to export trace data to Data Prepper. Then, you need to deploy Data Prepper as an intermediate component and configure it to send the enriched trace data to your OpenSearch cluster or Amazon OpenSearch Service domain. Finally, use OpenSearch Dashboards to visualize and detect problems in your distributed applications.

## Trace analytics pipeline

To achieve trace analytics in Data Prepper, we have three pipelines: `entry-pipeline`, `raw-trace-pipeline` and `service-map-pipeline`.

![Trace analytics pipeline]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/data-prepper/trace-analytics/trace-analytics-feature.jpeg)

### OpenTelemetry trace source

> The [OpenTelemetry source](../data-prepper-plugins/otel-trace-source/README.md) accepts trace data from the OpenTelemetry collector. The source depends on [OpenTelemetry Protocol](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/tree/master/specification/protocol). The source officially support transport over gRPC. The source also supports industry-standard encryption (TLS/HTTPS).

Author: @cwillum @Naarcha-AWS Are these links formatted correctly or do they need to be changed?

Author: Addressed these links.

We recommend the following guidelines when making changes to buffer settings:
 * The `buffer_size` value in `otel-trace-pipeline` and `raw-pipeline` should be the same.
 * The `buffer_size` should be greater than or equal to `workers` * `batch_size` in the `raw-pipeline`.
 

#### Workers 

The `workers` setting determines the number of threads that are used by Data Prepper to process requests from the buffer. We recommend that you set `workers` based on the CPU utilization. This value can be higher than the number of available processors, because Data Prepper spends significant input/output time when sending data to OpenSearch.

#### Heap

Configure the heap of Data Prepper by setting the `JVM_OPTS` environmental variable. We recommend that you set the heap value to a minimum value of `4` * `batch_size` * `otel_send_batch_size` * `maximum size of indvidual span`.

As mentioned in the [setup guide]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/trace_analytics/#opentelemetry-collector), set `otel_send_batch_size` to a value of `50` in your OpenTelemetry collector configuration.

#### Local disk

> Data Prepper uses the local disk to store metadata required for service-map processing, so we recommend storing only the key fields: `traceId`, `spanId`, `parentSpanId`, `spanKind`, `spanName` and `serviceName`. The service-map plugin stores only two files, each of which stores `window_duration` seconds of data. As an example, testing with a throughput of `3000 spans/second` resulted in the total disk usage of `4 MB`.

Author: service-map should be in code format.

### AWS

The [AWS EC2 Cloudformation](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/deployment-template/ec2/data-prepper-ec2-deployment-cfn.yaml) template provides a user-friendly mechanism to configure the scaling attributes described in the [Trace tuning section](#trace-tuning).

The [Kubernetes configuration files](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/examples/dev/k8s/README.md) and [EKS configuration files](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/deployment-template/eks/README.md) are available to configure these attributes in a cluster deployment.

### Benchmark

The benchmark tests were performed in a `r5.xlarge` EC2 instance with the following configuration:
 
 * `buffer_size`: 4096
 * `batch_size`: 256
 * `workers`: 8
 * `Heap`: 10GB
 
This setup was able to handle a throughput of `2100` spans/second at `20` percent CPU utilization.

## Pipeline configuration

The following sections describe examples of different types of pipelines and how to configure them. 

### Example: Trace analytics pipeline

> The following example demonstrates how to build a pipeline that supports the [OpenSearch Dashboards Observability plugin]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/observability-plugin/trace/ta-dashboards/). This pipeline takes data from the OpenTelemetry Collector and uses two other pipelines as sinks. These two separate pipelines perform index tracing, then service map documents for the dashboard plugin. The first pipeline prepares trace data for OpenSearch, enriches, and ingests the span documents into a span index within OpenSearch. The second pipeline aggregates traces into a service map and writes service map documents into a service map index within OpenSearch.

Author: @dlvenable How does "...perform index tracing and service mapping for documents in the Observability plugin." sound?

> The following example demonstrates how to build a pipeline that supports the [OpenSearch Dashboards Observability plugin]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/observability-plugin/trace/ta-dashboards/). This pipeline takes data from the OpenTelemetry Collector and uses two other pipelines as sinks. These two separate pipelines perform index tracing, then service map documents for the dashboard plugin. The first pipeline prepares trace data for OpenSearch, enriches, and ingests the span documents into a span index within OpenSearch. The second pipeline aggregates traces into a service map and writes service map documents into a service map index within OpenSearch.

Reviewer: I think the only the only think we need that sentence to do is connect the one preceding ("... two other pipelines as sinks.") it with the two following it ("The first pipeline...")

> Starting with Data Prepper version 2.0, Data Prepper no longer supports the `otel_trace_raw_prepper` processor due to the Data Prepper internal data model structure. Instead, users should use the `otel_trace_raw` processor. See the following YAML file example:

Author: @dlvenable Can you provide some clarification, specifically for "...due to the internal model data structure"? I want to explain why Data Prepper no longer supports this specific processor.

> Starting with Data Prepper version 2.0, Data Prepper no longer supports the `otel_trace_raw_prepper` processor due to the Data Prepper internal data model structure. Instead, users should use the `otel_trace_raw` processor. See the following YAML file example:

Reviewer: Maybe this:

> Data Prepper no longer supports the `otel_trace_raw_prepper` processor. The `otel_trace_raw` processor replaces it and supports some of Data Prepper's recent data model changes.

  delay: "100"
  source:
    otel_trace_source:
      ssl: false
  buffer:
    bounded_blocking:
      buffer_size: 10240
      batch_size: 160
  sink:
    - pipeline:
        name: "raw-trace-pipeline"
    - pipeline:
        name: "service-map-pipeline"
raw-pipeline:
  source:
    pipeline:
      name: "entry-pipeline"
  buffer:
    bounded_blocking:
      buffer_size: 10240
      batch_size: 160
  processor:
    - otel_trace_raw:
  sink:
    - opensearch:
        hosts: ["https://localhost:9200"]
        insecure: true
        username: admin
        password: admin
        index_type: trace-analytics-raw
service-map-pipeline:
  delay: "100"
  source:
    pipeline:
      name: "entry-pipeline"
  buffer:
    bounded_blocking:
      buffer_size: 10240
      batch_size: 160
  processor:
    - service_map_stateful:
  sink:
    - opensearch:
        hosts: ["https://localhost:9200"]
        insecure: true
        username: admin
        password: admin
        index_type: trace-analytics-service-map
```

To maintain similar ingestion throughput and latency, scale the `buffer_size` and `batch_size` by the estimated maximum batch size in the client request payload. {: .tip}

> #### Example: otel trace

Author: @natebower otel should not be capitalized. It is normally in code format. Can we use code format in this heading?

The following is an example `otel-trace-source` .yaml file with SSL and basic authentication enabled. Note that you will have to change your `otel-collector-config.yaml` file to use your own credentials. 

```yaml
source:
  otel_trace_source:
    #record_type: event  # Add this when using Data Prepper 1.x. This option is removed in 2.0
    ssl: true
    sslKeyCertChainFile: "/full/path/to/certfile.crt"
    sslKeyFile: "/full/path/to/keyfile.key"
    authentication:
      http_basic:
        username: "my-user"
        password: "my_s3cr3t"
```

#### Example: pipeline.yaml

> The following is an example `pipeline.yaml` file without SSL and basic authentication for the `otel-trace-pipeline` pipeline:

Author: It definitely should!

        window_duration: 180 
  buffer:
      bounded_blocking:
         # buffer_size is the number of ExportTraceRequest from otel-collector the data prepper should hold in memeory. 
         # We recommend to keep the same buffer_size for all pipelines. 
         # Make sure you configure sufficient heap
         # default value is 512
         buffer_size: 512
         # This is the maximum number of request each worker thread will process within the delay.
         # Default is 8.
         # Make sure buffer_size >= workers * batch_size
         batch_size: 8
  sink:
    - opensearch:
        hosts: [ "https://localhost:9200" ]
        index_type: trace-analytics-service-map
        # Change to your credentials
        username: "admin"
        password: "admin"
        # Add a certificate file if you are accessing an OpenSearch cluster with a self-signed certificate  
        #cert: /path/to/cert
        # If you are connecting to an Amazon OpenSearch Service domain without
        # Fine-Grained Access Control, enable these settings. Comment out the
        # username and password above.
        #aws_sigv4: true
        #aws_region: us-east-1
```

> You need to modify the preceding configuration for your OpenSearch cluster. Note that it has two `opensearch` sinks which need to be modified.

Reviewer 4: Are we able to be slightly more specific than "for"? Why does the user need to modify the configuration? For what purpose?

> You need to modify the preceding configuration for your OpenSearch cluster. Note that it has two `opensearch` sinks which need to be modified.

Author: @dlvenable Can you provide some clarification here for why users need to modify this configuration? Is there a reason these settings are not the default?

> You need to modify the preceding configuration for your OpenSearch cluster. Note that it has two `opensearch` sinks which need to be modified.

Author: For most users, this configuration will need to be changed to match their environment.

{: .note}

You must make the following changes:
* `hosts` - Set to your hosts
* `username` - Provide the OpenSearch username.
* `password` - Provide your OpenSearch password.

> * `aws_sigv4` - If you are using Amazon OpenSearch Service with AWS signing, set this value to `true`. It will sign requests with the default AWS credentials provider.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* `aws_sigv4` – If you are using Amazon OpenSearch Service with AWS signing, set this value to `true`. It will sign requests with the default AWS credentials provider.
```

* `aws_region` - If you are using Amazon OpenSearch Service with AWS signing, set this value to your region.

> For other configurations available for OpenSearch sinks, see [Data Prepper OpenSearch Sink]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/configuration/sinks/sinks/).

Reviewer 4: Ensure the capitalization of the linked text matches the capitalization of the page title.

## OpenTelemetry Collector

> You need to run OpenTelemetry collector in your service environment. Follow the [getting started guide](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/getting-started/#getting-started) to install an OpenTelemetry collector.  Ensure that you configure the collector with an exporter configured to your Data Prepper. The following example `otel-collector-config.yaml` receives data from various instrumentations and exports it to Data Prepper.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You need to run OpenTelemetry Collector in your service environment. Follow the [Getting Started](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/getting-started/#getting-started) guide to install an OpenTelemetry collector. Ensure that you configure the collector with an exporter configured to your Data Prepper. The following example `otel-collector-config.yaml` file receives data from various instrumentations and exports it to Data Prepper.
```

Reviewer 4: A noun should following "your Data Prepper". Your Data Prepper what?

Author: @dlvenable Is "Data Prepper instance" appropriate here?

### Example otel-collector-config.yaml file

The following is an example `otel-collector-config.yaml` file:

```
receivers:
  jaeger:
    protocols:
      grpc:
  otlp:
    protocols:
      grpc:
  zipkin:

processors:
  batch/traces:
    timeout: 1s
    send_batch_size: 50

exporters:
  otlp/data-prepper:
    endpoint: localhost:21890
    tls:
      insecure: true

service:
  pipelines:
    traces:
      receivers: [jaeger, otlp, zipkin]
      processors: [batch/traces]
      exporters: [otlp/data-prepper]
```

> After you run OpenTelemetry in your service environment, you must configure your application to use the OpenTelemetry collector. The OpenTelemetry collector typically runs alongside your application.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
After you run OpenTelemetry in your service environment, you must configure your application to use the OpenTelemetry Collector. The OpenTelemetry Collector typically runs alongside your application.
```

## Next steps and more information

> The [OpenSearch Dashboards Observability plugin]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/observability-plugin/trace/ta-dashboards/) documentation provides additional details on configuring OpenSearch for viewing trace analytics in OpenSearch Dashboards.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The [OpenSearch Dashboards Observability plugin]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/observability-plugin/trace/ta-dashboards/) documentation provides additional information about configuring OpenSearch to view trace analytics in OpenSearch Dashboards.
```

For more information about how to tune and scale Data Prepper for trace analytics, see [trace tuning](#trace-tuning).

## Migrating to Data Prepper 2.0

> Starting in Data Prepper version 1.4, trace processing uses Data Prepper's event model. This allows pipeline authors to configure other processors to modify spans or traces. To provide a migration path, Data Prepper version 1.4 introduced the following changes:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Starting with Data Prepper version 1.4, trace processing uses Data Prepper's event model. This allows pipeline authors to configure other processors to modify spans or traces. To provide a migration path, Data Prepper version 1.4 introduced the following changes:
```

Reviewer 4: Is "trace processing" the correct term? This is the only reference to it in this topic.

Author: @dlvenable Is "trace processing" correct?

Author: Trace processing is the correct term.

> * The `otel_trace_source` has an optional parameter `record_type` which can be set to `event`. When configured, it will output event objects.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* `otel_trace_source` has an optional `record_type` parameter that can be set to `event`. When configured, it will output event objects.
```

> * The `otel_trace_raw` replaces `otel_trace_raw_prepper` for event-based spans.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* `otel_trace_raw` replaces `otel_trace_raw_prepper` for event-based spans.
```

> * The `otel_trace_group` replaces `otel_trace_group_prepper` for event-based spans.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* `otel_trace_group` replaces `otel_trace_group_prepper` for event-based spans.
```

> In Data Prepper version 2.0, the `otel_trace_source` source will only output events. Data Prepper version 2.0 also removes the `otel_trace_raw_prepper` and `otel_trace_group_prepper` entirely. To migrate to Data Prepper version 2.0, you can configure your trace pipeline using the event model.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In Data Prepper version 2.0, `otel_trace_source` will only output events. Data Prepper version 2.0 also removes `otel_trace_raw_prepper` and `otel_trace_group_prepper` entirely. To migrate to Data Prepper version 2.0, you can configure your trace pipeline using the event model.
```

Data Prepper also uses the local disk to write logs. In the most recent version of Data Prepper, you can redirect the logs to the path of your preference.

### AWS

The [AWS EC2 Cloudformation](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/deployment-template/ec2/data-prepper-ec2-deployment-cfn.yaml) template provides a user-friendly mechanism to configure the above scaling attributes.

The [Kubernetes configuration files](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/examples/dev/k8s/README.md) and [EKS configuration files](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/deployment-template/eks/README.md) are available to configure these attributes in a cluster deployment.

### Benchmark

We ran tests in a `r5.xlarge` EC2 instance with the following configuration:
 
 * `buffer_size`: 4096
 * `batch_size`: 256
 * `workers`: 8
 * `Heap`: 10GB
 
The above setup was able to handle a throughput of `2100` spans/second at `20` percent CPU utilization.

## Pipeline configuration

The following sections describe pipeline configuration.

### Trace analytics pipeline example

> The following example demonstrates how to build a pipeline that supports the [OpenSearch Dashboards Observability plugin]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/observability-plugin/trace/ta-dashboards/). This pipeline takes data from the OpenTelemetry Collector and uses two other pipelines as sinks. These two, separate pipelines index trace and the service map documents for the dashboard plugin.

Author: @dlvenable "These two separate pipelines index trace and the service map documents for the dashboard plugin." - I think this is missing a word near "service map". Can you clarify?

Reviewer: This configuration splits data into two pipelines. Each pipeline has a specific job.

One pipeline prepares the trace data for OpenSearch. It enriches and ingests the span documents into a span index within OpenSearch.

The second pipeline aggregates the traces into a service map. It writes service map documents into a service map index within OpenSearch.

> Starting with Data Prepper version 2.0, Data Prepper no longer supports the `otel_trace_raw_prepper` processor due to the Data Prepper internal data model evolution. Instead, users should use the  `otel_trace_raw` processor. See the following .yaml file example:

Author: @dlvenable "...due to the Data Prepper internal data model evolution." - Could we change this to "...due to Data Prepper's internal data model structure"? "internal data model evolution" is not very clear.

Reviewer: I'm good with the proposed change.

    otel_trace_source:
      ssl: false
  buffer:
    bounded_blocking:
      buffer_size: 10240
      batch_size: 160
  sink:
    - pipeline:
        name: "raw-trace-pipeline"
    - pipeline:
        name: "service-map-pipeline"
raw-pipeline:
  source:
    pipeline:
      name: "entry-pipeline"
  buffer:
    bounded_blocking:
      buffer_size: 10240
      batch_size: 160
  processor:
    - otel_trace_raw:
  sink:
    - opensearch:
        hosts: ["https://localhost:9200"]
        insecure: true
        username: admin
        password: admin
        index_type: trace-analytics-raw
service-map-pipeline:
  delay: "100"
  source:
    pipeline:
      name: "entry-pipeline"
  buffer:
    bounded_blocking:
      buffer_size: 10240
      batch_size: 160
  processor:
    - service_map_stateful:
  sink:
    - opensearch:
        hosts: ["https://localhost:9200"]
        insecure: true
        username: admin
        password: admin
        index_type: trace-analytics-service-map
```

To maintain similar ingestion throughput and latency, scale the `buffer_size` and `batch_size` by the estimated maximum batch size in the client request payload. {: .tip}

#### Example: `otel trace`

> The following is an example `otel-trace-source` .yaml file with SSL and basic authentication enabled. Note that you will need to change your `otel-collector-config.yaml` file to use your own credentials. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following is an example `otel-trace-source` .yaml file with SSL and basic authentication enabled. Note that you will need to modify your `otel-collector-config.yaml` file so that it uses your own credentials. 
```

         batch_size: 8
  sink:
    - opensearch:
        hosts: [ "https://localhost:9200" ]
        index_type: trace-analytics-service-map
        # Change to your credentials
        username: "admin"
        password: "admin"
        # Add a certificate file if you are accessing an OpenSearch cluster with a self-signed certificate  
        #cert: /path/to/cert
        # If you are connecting to an Amazon OpenSearch Service domain without
        # Fine-Grained Access Control, enable these settings. Comment out the
        # username and password above.
        #aws_sigv4: true
        #aws_region: us-east-1
```

You need to modify the preceding configuration for your OpenSearch cluster so that the configuration matches your environment. Note that it has two `opensearch` sinks that need to be modified.
{: .note}

You must make the following changes:
* `hosts` – Set to your hosts.
* `username` – Provide your OpenSearch username.
* `password` – Provide your OpenSearch password.
* `aws_sigv4` – If you are using Amazon OpenSearch Service with AWS signing, set this value to `true`. It will sign requests with the default AWS credentials provider.

> * `aws_region` – If you are using Amazon OpenSearch Service with AWS signing, set this value to your AWS region.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* `aws_region` – If you are using Amazon OpenSearch Service with AWS signing, set this value to your AWS Region.
```

For other configurations available for OpenSearch sinks, see [Data Prepper OpenSearch sink]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/configuration/sinks/opensearch/).

## OpenTelemetry Collector

> You need to run OpenTelemetry Collector in your service environment. Follow [Getting Started](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/getting-started/#getting-started) to install an OpenTelemetry collector.  Ensure that you configure the collector with an exporter configured to your Data Prepper instance. The following example `otel-collector-config.yaml` file receives data from various instrumentations and exports it to Data Prepper.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You need to run OpenTelemetry Collector in your service environment. Follow [Getting Started](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/getting-started/#getting-started) to install an OpenTelemetry collector.  Ensure that you configure the collector with an exporter configured for your Data Prepper instance. The following example `otel-collector-config.yaml` file receives data from various instrumentations and exports it to Data Prepper.
```

---
layout: default
title: Trace analytics
nav_order: 21
---

# Trace analytics

<!---Trace analytics allows you to collect trace data and customize a pipeline that ingests and transforms the data for use in OpenSearch.---> 

> This page provides an overview of the trace analytics workflow in Data Prepper, how to configure it, and how to visualize trace data.

Reviewer 2: Avoid 'this page'. Talk about when or why you would use the trace analytics use case.

To monitor trace analytics, you need to set up the following components in your service environment:
- Add an **instrumentation** to your application so it can generate telemetry data and send it to an OpenTelemetry collector.
- Run an **OpenTelemetry collector** as a sidecar or daemonset for EKS, a sidecar for ECS, or an agent on EC2. You should configure the collector to export trace data to Data Prepper. 
- Deploy **Data Prepper** as an intermediate component and configure it to send the enriched trace data to your OpenSearch cluster or Amazon OpenSearch Service domain. 
- Use **OpenSearch Dashboards** to visualize and detect problems in your distributed applications.

## Trace analytics pipeline

To achieve trace analytics in Data Prepper, we have three pipelines: `entry-pipeline`, `raw-trace-pipeline` and `service-map-pipeline`.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/data-prepper/trace-analytics/trace-analytics-feature.jpg" alt="Trace analyticis pipeline overview">{: .img-fluid}

### OpenTelemetry trace source

> The [OpenTelemetry source]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper-plugins/otel-trace-source/README.md) accepts trace data from the OpenTelemetry collector. The source follows the [OpenTelemetry Protocol](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/tree/master/specification/protocol). The source officially supports transport over gRPC and the use of industry-standard encryption (TLS/HTTPS).

Reviewer: > data-prepper-plugins/otel-trace-source/README.md

This is not the correct URL.

This should link to the path which is currently generated as: `/docs/2.4/data-prepper/configuration/sources/otel-trace/`. I'm not sure quite what `site.baseurl` resolves to, so you might need to change the path some.

### Processor

There are two processors for the Trace Analytics feature:

> * *otel_trace_raw* -  This is a processor that receives collection of [Span]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper-api/src/main/java/com/amazon/dataprepper/model/trace/Span.java) records sent from [otel-trace-source]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/dataPrepper-plugins/otel-trace-source), and performs stateful processing on extracting and filling-in trace group related fields.

Reviewer: > ({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper-api/src/main/java/com/amazon/dataprepper/model/trace/Span.java

This needs to be the URL to GitHub since we are linking the user to the actual Java class model.

> {{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/dataPrepper-plugins/otel-trace-source

This should also be `/docs/2.4/data-prepper/configuration/sources/otel-trace/`. I'm not sure how the `docs/2.4` operates here, so you might need to modify slightly.
